It’s always a hassle to determine if a movie is worth our time. Good thing we have reliable websites such as Rotten Tomatoes and IMDb. With the help of data visualization achieved through R code and SQL code provided in the “Introduction to Programming” course, we’ll also be able to decide easily on what to watch every movie night.
Before diving in to our questions, we had to merge different tables to create a connection in the data sets which we can then use to visualize our findings (Code line 11-41). We wondered what are the 10 highest-scoring movies on both platforms, with a nice find of The Shawshank Redemption having the highest score. (44-79). Thanks to the large data set, we were able to satiate our curiosity about which movies performed best score-wise each year in the last decade. By joining the score tables of the database together we found out that from all the best scored movies in the last 10 years, the 2008 movie The Dark Knight had the highest score (81-90). With this, we concluded that there hasn’t been any higher-rated movie since. However, we can also assume that nowadays, with so many films being released, it is harder for a movie to gain enough mainstream interest to compete with the movies from the past decades. Other movies were approached with the same procedure i.e. by joining tables and focusing on audience scores and critic scores. To our surprise, there were more than a thousand movies with a critic score of 0 in the Rotten Tomato database. According to the IMDb database, the worst movie with the lowest score of 19 is Disaster Movie (94-121). 
After covering the basics, we dived into different genres. Finding out the highest-rated genres based on critics’ scores are Westerns and Drama (125-139). Horror, Sci-fi is considered the top-rated genre according to IMDb and Audience scores from RT (140-171). We then took those genres and visualized their performance based on scores throughout the years (172-240). We did the same thing for the lowest-rated genres based on critics’ scores, IMDb audience scores and Rotten Tomatoes audience scores. Combined genres of ‘Horror, Sci-Fi’ and ‘Action, Horror, Sci-fi’ were not rated yearly, as there are missing scores on some years throughout the period (243-433). Afterwards, we made a list of the best/worst films by each genre in the last decade by creating a code that cycles through all genres and selects the best and worst movies (436-494).
Then we started thinking more complexly and came up with questions like “How many out of the top ten rated movies by critics and by the audience were directed by women?” But we did not have all the necessary information within the provided data sets so we had to outsource the information on the directors’ identities. We did this by Internet researching the ten best and worst-rated movies that we found through our code. We found that none of the top ten rated movies were directed by women (496-519). Then, for the sake of our own curiosity, we started widening the research question to twenty, then thirty, and then ultimately fifty movies, and, excluding any potential error made on our side, the result did not differ from the original one. Regarding question eight, we included the data from our own ranking which we made in order to compare our taste to that of the voters from Rotten Tomatoes and IMDb (564-612). 
Lastly, we were curious if for example 9/11 had any significant impact on the perception of action movies, or any other genre, considering it had a notable impact on politics, pop culture and culture in general, inside and outside of the United States of America. Concluding from our findings, no noticeable shift in genre popularity happened (534-561).  


Our takeaways from this assignment is a deeper understanding of visualized data, as well as the process of managing large data sets and using them for the purposes of specific research requirements and we gained confidence in our data visualization and interpretation skills.